# Exercises for Section 8.5

### 8.5.1

Construct the DAG for the basic block

```
d = b * c
e = a + b
b = b * c
a = e - d
```

### 8.5.2

Simplify the three-address code of Exercise 8.5.1, assuming

1. Only a is live on exit from the block.
2. a, b, and c are live on exit from the block.

### 8.5.3

Construct the basic block for the code in block B6 of Fig. 8.9. Do not forget to include the comparison i <= 10.

### 8.5.4

Construct the basic block for the code inblock B3 of Fig.8.9.

### 8.5.5

Extend Algorithm 8.7 to process three-statements ofthe form

1. a[i] = b
2. a = b[i]
3. a = *b
4. *a = b

￼Exercise 8.5.6 : Construct the DAG for the basic block

```
a[i] = b
*p = c
d = a[j]
e = *p
*p = a[i]
```

on the assumption that

1. p can point anywhere.
b. pcanpointonlytobord.

### 8.5.7 !

If a pointer or array expression, such as a[i] or *p is assigned and then used, without the possibility of being changed in the interim, we can take advantage of the situation to simplify the DAG. For example, in the code of Exercise 8.5.6, since p is not assigned between the second and fourth statements,the statement e = *p can be replaced by e = c, regardless of what p points to. Revise the DAG-construction algorithm to take advantage of such situations, and apply your algorithm to the code of Example 8.5.6.

### 8.5.8

Suppose a basic block is formed from the C assignment state­ ments

```
x = a + b + c + d + e + f;
y = a + c + e;
```
1. Give the three-address statements (only one addition per statement) for this block.
2. Use the associative and commutative laws to modify the block to use the fewest possible number of instructions, assuming both x and y are live on exit from the block.




