# Exercises for Section 3.5

### 3.5.1

Describe how to make the following modifications to the Lex
program of Fig. 3.23:

1. Add the keyword while.
2. Change the comparison operators to be the C operators of that kind.
3. Allow the underscore ( _ ) as an additional letter.
4. ! Add a new pattern with token STRING. The pattern consists of a double­
quote ( " ) , any string of characters and a final double-quote. However,
if a double-quote appears in the string, it must be escaped by preceding
it with a backslash (\) , and therefore a backslash in the string must be
represented by two backslashes. The lexical value, which is the string
without the surrounding double-quotes, and with backslashes used to es.,.
cape a character removed. Strings are to be installed in a table of strings.

[source](./src/lex.l)

### 3.5.2

Write a Lex program that copies a file, replacing each non­
empty sequence of white space by a single blank

### 3.5.3

Write a Lex program that copies a C program, replacing each
instance of the keyword f loat by double.。

### 3.5.4 ！

Write a Lex program that converts a file to "Pig latin."
Specifically, assume the file is a sequence of words (groups . of letters) separated
by whitespace. Every time you encounter a word:

1. If the first letter is a consonant, move it to the end of the word and then
add ay!
2. If the first letter is a vowel, just add ay to the end of the word.

All nonletters are copied int act to the output.

[source](./src/lex2.l)

### 3.5.5 ！

In SQL, keywords and identifiers are case-insensitive. Write
a Lex program that recognizes the keywords SELECT, FROM, and WHERE (in any
combination of capital and lower-case letters) , and token ID, which for the
purposes of this exercise you may take to be any sequence of letters and digits,
beginning with a letter. You need not install identifiers in a symbol table, but
tell how the "install" function would differ from that described for case-sensitive
identifiers as in Fig. 3.23.

[source](./src/lex3.l)
